USING POSTMAN FOR TESTING API:
--------------------------------
->API is a defined set of rules, which contains clearly defined methods of communication. 
->API helps different software components to interact with each other.
->API testing involves testing the collection of APIs and checking if they meet expectations for functionality, reliability, performance, and security and returns the correct response.
->API testing is used to determine whether the output is well-structured and useful to another application or not, checks the response on basis of input (request) parameter,
 and checks how much time the API is taking to retrieve and authorise the data too.

Postman is an application for testing APIs, by sending request to the web server and getting the response back.

->It allows users to set up all the headers and cookies the API expects, and checks the response.
->Productivity can be increased using some of the Postman features, which are listed below.
->A test in Postman is fundamentally a JavaScript code, which run after a request is sent and a response has been received from the server.

In API calls, we mainly use two things:
HTTP Request--Request is the simplest way possible to make http calls.
HTTP Request contains  Request Method, Request URL, Request Headers, Request Body, Pre-request Script and Tests.

Request Methods--Request methods defines the type of request to be made.
the following are the request methods which are used oftenly:
POST Request--For Creating Or Updating data
PUT Request---For Updating data
GET Request---For Retrieving/Fetching data 
DELETE Request-For Deleting data.

Request URL--It is where we make the http request.

Request Headers-- request headers mainly contains key-value of the application.the two keyvalues are mentioned below:
->Content-Type--A content-type describes the format of object data.
->Authorization---An authorization token, included with requests, is used to identify the requester.

Request Body--It contains the data, if any (depends on type of request method), to be sent with request. 

Pre-request Script--Pre-request script is a piece of code which is executed before the request is sent.
Example: In order to use Postman BDD  with request, one needs to define the below code in Pre-request Script.
If the environment variable for “postman_bdd_path” is not set, then request, where pre-request script is defined, will use it from the request.

Tests in Postman--In Postman one can write and run tests for each request using the JavaScript language.

-> HTTP Response  On sending request, API sends the response which consists of the Body, Cookies, Headers, Tests, Status code, and API Response Time.
Postman organises body and headers in different tabs. The status code with the time taken to complete the API call is displayed in another tab.

There are many status code, from which we can verify the response.
200 -successful request.
201 -successful request and data was created.
204 -Empty Response.
400 -Bad Request. 
401 -Unauthorized access. 
403 -Forbidden, Access denied.
404 -data not found.
405 -Method Not Allowed or Requested method is not supported.
500 -Internal Server Error.
503 -Service Unavailable.